In this blog post, I will show you how to use nmake to compile and run a sample code written in C. Nmake is a tool that automates the process of building executable files from source code files. It works by reading a makefile that specifies the dependencies and commands for building the target file. To use nmake, you need to have a makefile that follows the syntax and rules of nmake. For this example, I have created a simple makefile named test.mak that contains the following lines:

all: test.exe

test.exe: test.obj
    link test.obj

test.obj: test.c
    cl /c test.c

clean:
    del *.obj *.exe

The first line defines a target named all that depends on test.exe. The second line defines how to build test.exe from test.obj using the link command. The third line defines how to build test.obj from test.c using the cl command. The last line defines a target named clean that deletes all the intermediate and output files.

To run nmake, you need to open a command prompt and navigate to the directory where your makefile and source code are located. Then, you can type the following command:

nmake /f "test.mak"

This tells nmake to use the file test.mak as the makefile and execute the commands for the default target, which is the first one defined in the makefile. In this case, it will build test.exe from test.c and run it.

If you want to clean up the files after running the program, you can type:

nmake /f "test.mak" clean

This tells nmake to use the same makefile and execute the commands for the target clean, which will delete all the files generated by nmake.

I hope this blog post has helped you understand how to use nmake to compile and run sample code. If you have any questions or feedback, please leave a comment below. Thank you for reading!
